title: Choosing your path: Developers guide to career options
date: 2025-04-22

---

At some point in the career of a Developer they have to make a choice.

For some (including myself) it isn't a conscious decision, but rather something that happens by accident.
It can be defined by the company you work for, your own interests, skillset or the skills of others that you work alongside.
Either way, you make the choice or it is made for you. Both are fine, but its up to the individual to take control of that choice.

To explain this in more detail, I will speak mostly from my own experience.

Prior to my career as a Developer, I was more interested in design. When starting to learn coding, it was a means to an end to create well-designed user interfaces. I was not particularly interested in learning
languages in great detail, but more in gaining just enough knowledge to create the ideas in my head. Through the course of my career, I've worked with multiple languages on frontend, backend and cloud projects, but my goal has always been the same: learn enough to do the thing I need to do. Prototyping ideas, developing solutions and architecting systems is where I find the most reward, which lends itself more naturally to a career as a Manager. This was something I discovered by accident, but this doesn't have to be the case.

Ultimately, at some point in your career, the choice between people or project management will come up. The question is, do you want to focus on developing software or developing people?

The following is a rough guide to helping you make a decision. Its loosely based on CRO (Conversion Rate Optimisation) ideas, which may help provide some structure to what can be a daunting task.

## Gathering the data

## Testing the water

## Iterate and evolve
